Some comments I made on Discord. 
200 Missions, 44 characters or so, 60 Suits.  Suits have Gear, Characters have Skills to unlock.  Oh and then you have mission mode for every character + officials, plus tons more.  And a friendship system that can be brutal.
AKA a fuck ton of stuff

200 Missions, You have A Character + A gundam, then a license for that character to ride the gundam.  Every character Skills, every gundam has parts you have to farm, every Character has friendships with every other character, Every character has a mission arc.  4 characters have a "Official" mission along with their mission arc.  I'm sure I'm missing a ton .


All Skills?
Licenses
Story mode 
Original mode
Collect the side modes in Mission mode together. 
One character perfect friendship (Xbox 360 achievement, so should do) 
Parts for each of the 60 suits.
Unlocking characters
MS Lab
BUilding Dom 
Combo?  (ehhh)

Gallery


Maybe beat a level in a ball and beat a level in a Zaku (not levels designed for them)

Beat char with a zaku? 

Befriend specific people? 

unlock Characters
unlock mechs. 

Quiz

Kamille's secret ending.



OK For fourth parts, no Powers of Bonds, and No True Dynasty Warriors Gundam 2... Instead you have to earn the parts. 

This one is much harder than Previous games. 

Missions seem like every character CAN beat them, but will they? that might cause some problems. 



X Need to find skills. 


X Need to see if I can look at every player of a specific missions at once, should be reasonable. 

  Need to see if I can grab all the friendships in one pull. 


X Need to piece out the parts of the suits. 
X Need to piece out the MS lab values. 

X Need to piece out building suits. 


X Need to find demo mode.

X Need to find two player. 
  
X  Need to find Quiz. 

X Need to get the Pilot gallery 

X Need to find the Mobile Suit level. 

X  Need to find a way to do "Hard" missions, probably mission by mission.  No Interim Save

X Mobile Suits started With
    Gundam
    Zaku II (Char)
    Gelgoog (Char)
    Gundam Mk-II
    Z Gundam
    Hyaku Shiki
    ΖΖ Gundam
    Gundam F91
    V2 Gundam
    Burning Gundam
    Master Gundam
    Wing Gundam Zero
    Gundam Epyon
    Turn A Gundam
    Strike Freedom Gundam
    Infinite Justice Gundam
    Destiny Gundam

Starting Mission Mode characters 
    Kira Yamato
    Athrun Zala
    Shinn Asuka
    Seabook Arno
    Uso Ewin
    Domo Kasshu
    Master Asia
    Heero Yuy
    Millardo Peacecraft
    Loran Cehack


    For "4th Gear" check "usable" and then check if the part is marked as 0x00 and then check the value of the gear. 


Need Kills, Need Time. 