Why this game? 

It's yet another Musou!  Samurai Warriors 3, and actually the one I have never played.  It's the only one on a Nintendo platform (Well of the mainline games, and I'm probably wrong about that too). 

So yet another Musou game? 

Yes, but also no, this isn't just yet another Musou Game, Samurai Warriors 3 is special in my opinion.  There's like 70 different level in this game (not counting the Murasame Castle) and with each of the 24 musou mode  character having 5 levels, there's 120  "story levels" Which means a HUGE amount of those levels are "custom", which is true.   These numbers are rough (They count the Historical mode for 135 levels) but on average each stage is only used twice.  Some obviously are used more, many are used once..

And this also means each of those 24 characters have very unique story modes, so not only do they play and handle differently, but they're seeing unique battles, which is damn cool.   

Then Murasame Castle is a whole new mode with it's own story and levels, and a special character, and there's tons more in this game. 

Anything missable?

Technically no.  Don't play in multiplayer, don't play online, don't download a save.. and you should be fine. 

What's with the Chaos achievements being in one session?  I thought after SW6/DW3XL that was a thing of the past?

Ok, so I'm not thrilled about this one. I got some feedback that I have opinions on, but basically, there were too many achievments on DW6, that's how I understood is so, the choice was 1 achievement per character (70 levels 24 characters, more than half wouldn't be played on Chaos) or 1 achievement for an entire story mode, obviously I chose the latter as I felt otherwise it's missing content. I'm not thrilled about this, but it's what people wanted, nothing appears to be able to be done, and I am not able to discuss it futher.   

I do think this is the wrong approach, and I think most people who have played through this series understand the difference but... we'll leave it there. Not really the place to argue it, but I wanted to make it clear I heard the praise of both of those sets. I loved it, but... well you know. 

Wii/Dolphin controls kind of suck.

Yeah they really do, and I think a lot of people will realize how annoying the system is at times.   However for this game, I HIGHLY recommend setting up a Wiimote (either real on emulated) with a Classic Controller, it has the BEST button configuration, the most buttons, and feels almost as good as any other console.  The game does miss a "move the camera behind the direction I'm facing" button, or at least I haven't seen it yet, but otherwise you'll have a great time.   Also the manual starts by discussing a classic controller so clearly is the prefered way to play. 

This game sucks.

I disagree, but I also am emulating on a decent system.  I have heard that people thought the game was chugging along, I don't know if Dolphin handles the game better, if so, another point for emulation, but I don't think it's that bad.  There's definitely rough edges, but you won't get this experience anywhere else sadly. 

These achievements are too hard.

That's a different "question" but while I haven't beat every level on this, I do like to push Musou players to the limit with out making them jump through too many hoops.  Chaos mode IS intended to be played by the developers (well it's available to be played and intentional).  Getting Completed on it, might not have been fully intended, but it's a good challenge and before people say "there's no rewards". In the Japanese PS3 Expanded version the fifth weapon was given on one level on Chaos, so that is intentional.   Are all 5 beatable?  Probably, if something is legitimately impossible, let me know but I'm pretty sure with in a month someone will have a mastery. 

I found a bug or issue. 

Either direct message me on discord, message me on here, or open a ticket.  A save state is preferable. A save state just before beating the level is ideal if it's related to that.   

